# CouchbaseCluster Configuration

The following sample CouchbaseCluster configuration file lists all the configuration parameters:

```yaml
apiVersion: couchbase.database.couchbase.com/v1beta1
kind: CouchbaseCluster
metadata:
  name: cb-example
  namespace: default
spec:
  baseImage: couchbase/server
  version: enterprise-5.0.1
  paused: false
  antiAffinity: true
  authSecret: my-secret
  exposeAdminConsole: true
  adminConsoleServices:
    - data
  exposedFeatures:
    - xdcr
  softwareUpdateNotifications: true
  cluster:
    dataServiceMemoryQuota: 256
    indexServiceMemoryQuota: 256
    searchServiceMemoryQuota: 256
    indexStorageSetting: default
    autoFailoverTimeout: 30
  buckets:
    - name: default
      type: couchbase
      memoryQuota: 1024
      replicas: 1
      ioPriority: high
      eviction-policy: value-eviction
      conflictResolution: seqno
      enableFlush: true
      enableIndexReplica: false
  servers:
    - size: 1
      name: all_services
      services:
        - data
        - index
        - query
        - search
      dataPath: /opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/data
      indexPath: /opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/data
      pod:
        couchabseEnv:
          ENV1: value
        resources:
          limits:
            cpu: 4GHz
            memory: 8GiB
            storage: 100GiB
          requests:
            cpu: 2GHz
            memory: 8GiB
            storage: 50GiB
        labels:
          couchbase_services: all
        nodeSelector:
          instanceType: large
        tolerations:
          - key: app
            operator: Equal
            value: cbapp
            effect: NoSchedule
        automountServiceAccountToken: false
        volumeMounts:
          - name: couchbase
            path: /opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/
  volumeClaimTemplates:
    - metadata:
        name: couchbase
      spec:
        storageClassName: "standard"
        resources:
          requests:
            storage: 1Gi
```

<!-- TOC depthFrom:2 depthTo:6 withLinks:1 updateOnSave:1 orderedList:0 -->

- [Top-Level Definitions](#top-level-definitions)
- [Spec: The Top-Level](#spec-the-top-level)
- [Spec: The Cluster Settings](#spec-the-cluster-settings)
- [Spec: Bucket Settings](#spec-bucket-settings)
- [Spec: Servers](#spec-servers)
	- [The Pod Policy](#the-pod-policy)
		- [Resources](#resources)

<!-- /TOC -->

## Top-Level Definitions

The following parameters are the top level parameters for a CouchbaseCluster configuration:

```yaml
apiVersion: couchbase.database.couchbase.com/v1beta1
kind: CouchbaseCluster
metadata:
  name: cb-example
  namespace: default
spec:
...
```

**apiversion**

This field specifies the API Version for our integration. As our integration changes over time, you can change the API Version whenever new features are added. For any given release, the API Versions supported by that Operator will be specified in our documentation. We also always recommend that you upgrade to the latest API Version when possible.

> *Field rules:* This field is required and must be set to a valid API version. The value of this field cannot be changed after the cluster is created.

**kind**

This field specifies that this Kubernetes configuration will use the custom Couchbase controller to manage the cluster.

> *Field rules:* This field is required and must always be set to CouchbaseCluster. The value of this field cannot be changed after the cluster is created.

**metadata**

Allows setting a name for the Couchbase cluster and a namespace that the cluster should be deployed in.

> *Field rules:* A name is highly recommended, but not required. If values are not set in the metadata field then defaults will be set. The value of ```name``` will be autogenerated and the value of ```namespace``` will be set to "default". The value of these fields cannot be changed after the cluster is created.

**spec**

This field contains the specification on how the Couchbase cluster must be deployed.

## Spec: The Top-Level

Defines top level parameters related to a Couchbase cluster deployment.

```yaml
...
  baseImage: couchbase/server
  version: enterprise-5.0.1
  paused: false
  antiAffinity: true
  authSecret: my-auth-secret
  exposeAdminConsole: true
  adminConsoleServices:
    - data
  exposedFeatures:
    - xdcr
  softwareUpdateNotifications: true
...
```

**baseImage**
This field specifies the image that should be used.

> *Field rules:* The ```baseImage``` field is required and should be set to "couchbase/server" unless you want Kubernetes to pull the Couchbase Server docker container from a different location. The value of this field cannot be changed after the cluster is created.

**version**

This field specifies the version number of Couchbase Server to install. This should match an available version number in the Couchbase Docker repository. It may never be changed to a lower version number than the version that is currently running.

> *Field rules:* The ```version``` field is required and should be set to the version of Couchbase Server that should be used to build the cluster. At the time of this writing, the Couchbase Operator has only been tested with enterprise-5.0.1. The value of this field cannot be changed after the cluster is created.

**paused**

This field specifies whether or not the Operator is currently managing this cluster. This parameter should generally be set to true, but may be set to false if you decide to make manual changes to the cluster. By disabling the Operator you can change the cluster configuration without having to worry about the Operator reverting the changes. However, before re-enabling the Operator, ensure that the Kubernetes configuration matches the cluster configuration.

> *Field rules:* The ```paused``` field is not required and defaults to false if not specified.

**antiAffinity**

This field specifies whether or not two pods in this cluster can be deployed on the same Kubernetes node. In a production setting this parameter should always be set to true in order to reduce the chance of data loss incase a Kubernetes Node crashes.

> *Field rules:* The ```antiAffinity``` field is not required and defaults to false if not specified. The value of this field cannot be changed after the cluster is created.

**authSecret**

This field specifies the name of a Kubernetes Secret that should be used as the user name and password of the Couchbase super-user.

> *Field rules:* The ```authSecret``` field is required and should reference the name of a [Kubernetes Secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) that already exists. The value of this field cannot be changed after the cluster is created.

**exposeAdminConsole**

This field specifies whether or not the Couchbase Web Console should be exposed externally. Exposing the Web Console is done using a NodePort service and the port for the service can be found in the describe output when describing this cluster. This parameter may be changed while the cluster is running and the Operator will create/destroy the NodePort service as appropriate.

> *Field rules:* The ```exposeAdminConsole``` field is not required and defaults to false if not specified.

**adminConsoleServices**

When the Couchbase Web Console is exposed, the pod that it is connected to is chosen based on the client IP address. Since the Web Console may display slightly different features based on the services running on the particular pod it is connected to, we let you specify the services so that the exposed port will only connect to pods that contain the services specified for this parameter. A list of one or more services should be provided. If you do not specify any service, then the Web Console will be connected to all pods in the cluster.

> *Field rules:* The ```adminConsoleServices``` list is not required and defaults to an empty list. An empty list means any node in the cluster may be chosen when connecting to the Web Console.

**exposedFeatures**

This field specified a list of per-pod features to expose on the cluster network (as opposed to the pod network).  These define sets of ports which are required to support the specified features.  The supported values are as follows:

***admin***

Exposes the admin API and UI

***xdcr***

Exposes the ports necessary to support XDCR via L3 connectivity at the cluster network layer.

***client***

Exposes all client services.  These include data, views, query, full text search, analytics.

> *Field rules:* The ```exposedFeatures``` list is optional, no feature sets are exposed to the cluster network if unset.

**softwareUpdateNotifications**

This field specifies whether or not software update notifications are displayed in the Couchbase UI.  This provides a visual indication as to whether a software update is available and should be applied in order to increase functionality or fix defects.

> *Field rules:* The ```softwareUpdateNotifications``` field is optional and defaults to false if not specified.  This setting can be modified at any point in the cluster life-cycle.

## Spec: The Cluster Settings

This section specifies the various Couchbase cluster settings. This section is not meant to encompass every setting that is configurable on Couchbase. Cluster settings not mentioned here can be managed manually.

```yaml
...
  cluster:
    dataServiceMemoryQuota: 4096
    indexServiceMemoryQuota: 1024
    searchServiceMemoryQuota: 2048
    indexStorageType: plasma
    autoFailoverTimeout: 30
...
```

**dataServiceMemoryQuota**

The amount of memory to assign to the data service if present on a specific Couchbase node in MiB.

> *Field rules:* The ```dataServiceMemoryQuota``` field is required and must be set to be greater than or equal to 256. Keep in mind that the sum of all memory quotas must be no more than 80% of a pods available memory.

**indexServiceMemoryQuota**

The amount of memory to assign to the index service if present on a specific Couchbase node in MiB.

> *Field rules:* The ```indexServiceMemoryQuota``` field is required and must be set to be greater than or equal to 256. Keep in mind that the sum of all memory quotas must be no more than 80% of a pods available memory.

**searchServiceMemoryQuota**

The amount of memory to assign to the search service if present on a specific Couchbase node in MiB. This parameter defaults to 256MiB if it is not set.

> *Field rules:* The ```searchServiceMemoryQuota``` field is required and must be set to be greater than or equal to 256. Keep in mind that the sum of all memory quotas must be no more than 80% of a pods available memory.

**indexStorageType**

Specifies the backend storage type to use for the index service. If the cluster already contains a Couchbase Server instance running the index service, then this parameter cannot be changed until all Couchbase instances running the index service are removed.

> *Field rules:* The ```indexStorageType``` is required and must be set to either "plasma" or "memory-optimized". The value of this field can only be changed if there are no index nodes in the cluster.

**autoFailoverTimeout**

Specifies the auto-failover timeout in seconds. The Operator relies on the CouchbaseCluster to auto-failover nodes before removing them, so setting this field to an appropriate value is important.

> *Field rules:* The ```autoFailoverTimeout``` is required and must be greater than or equal to 5.

## Spec: Bucket Settings

This section defines one or more buckets that must be created in the cluster.
Note that if you remove an already specified bucket from the configuration, the Operator will delete that bucket from the cluster.

```yaml
...
  buckets:
    - name: default
      type: couchbase
      memoryQuota: 1024
      replicas: 1
      ioPriority: high
      evictionPolicy: value-eviction
      conflictResolution: seqno
      enableFlush: true
      enableIndexReplica: false
...
```

**name**

This field specifies the name of the bucket. This parameter is required when specifying a bucket.

> *Field rules:* The ```name``` is required and must be a string using characters and numbers. The value of this field cannot be changed after the bucket is created.

**type**

This field specifies the type of bucket to create. This parameter can be set to “couchbase”, “ephemeral”, or “memcached”. If the type is not specified, it defaults to “couchbase”.

> *Field rules:* The ```type``` is required and must be set to either "couchbase", "ephemeral", or "memcached". The value of this field cannot be changed after the bucket is created.

**memoryQuota**

This field specifies the amount of memory to allocate to this bucket in MiB. If the quota is not specified, it defaults to 100MiB.

> *Field rules:* The ```memoryQuota``` is required and must be set greater than or equal to 100.

**replicas**

This field specifies the number of replica that should be created for this bucket. This value may be set between 0 and 3 inclusive. If the number is not set, it defaults to 1. Note that this parameter has no effect for the memcached bucket type.

> *Field rules:* The ```replicas``` field is required for buckets with type "couchbase" and "ephemeral" and must be set between 0 and 3. Memcached buckets will ignore values in this field. Changing the value of this field will cause a rebalance to occur.

**ioPriority**

This field sets the IO priority of background threads for this bucket. This option is valid for Couchbase and Ephemeral buckets only. Memcached buckets will ignore values in this field.

> *Field rules:* The ```ioPriority``` is required for buckets with type "couchbase" and "ephemeral" and must be set to either "high" or "low". Memcached buckets will ignore values in this field. Changing the value of this field will cause downtime while the bucket is restarted.

**evictionPolicy**

This field sets the memory-cache eviction policy for this bucket. This option is valid for Couchbase and Ephemeral buckets only.

Couchbase buckets support either "valueOnly" or "fullEviction". Specifying the "valueOnly" policy means that each key stored in this bucket must be kept in memory. This is the default policy; using this policy improves the performance of key-value operations, but limits the maximum size of the bucket. Specifying the "fullEviction" policy means that the performance is impacted for key-value operations, but the maximum size of the bucket is unbounded.

Ephemeral buckets support either "noEviction" or "nruEviction".
Specifying "noEviction" means that the bucket will not evict items from the cache if the cache is full. This type of eviction policy should be used for in-memory database use cases.
Specifying "nruEviction" means that items not recently used will be evicted from memory when all the memory in the bucket is used. This type of eviction policy should be used for caching use cases.

> *Field rules:* The ```evictionPolicy``` is required for buckets with type "couchbase" and "ephemeral". Memcached buckets will ignore values in this field. Changing the value of this field will cause downtime while the bucket is restarted.

**conflictResolution**

This field specifies the bucket's conflict resolution mechanism which is to be used if a conflict occurs during cross datacenter replication(XDCR). There are two supported mechanisms: sequence-based and timestamp-based.

The sequence-based conflict resolution mechanism selects the document that has been updated the greatest number of times since the last sync. For example, if one cluster has updated a document twice since the last sync, and the other cluster has updated the document three times, the document updated three times is selected regardless of the specific times at which these updates took place.

The timestamp-based conflict resolution mechanism selects the document with the most recent timestamp. This is only supported when all clocks on all the nodes are fully synchronized.

> *Field rules:* The ```conflictResolution``` field is required for buckets with type "couchbase" and "ephemeral" and can be set to either "seqno" or "lww". Memcached buckets will ignore values in this field. The value of this field may not be changed after the bucket has been created.

**enableFlush**

This field specifies whether or not to enable the flush command on this bucket. This parameter defaults to false if it is not specified. This parameter only affects Couchbase and Ephemeral buckets.

> *Field rules:* The ```enableFlush``` field can be set to either true or false. If defaults to false.

**enableIndexReplicas**

This field specifies whether or not to enable view index replicas for this bucket. This parameter defaults to false if it is not specified. This parameter only affects Couchbase buckets.

> *Field rules:* The ```enableIndexReplicas``` field is required for buckets with type "couchbase" and can be set to either true or false. Memcached and ephemeral buckets will ignore values in this field.

## Spec: Servers

You must specify at least one, but possibly multiple node specifications. A node specification is used to allow multi-dimensional scaling of a Couchbase cluster with Kubernetes.

```yaml
...
  servers:
  - size: 1
    name: all_services
    services:
      - data
      - index
      - query
      - search
    dataPath: /opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/data
    indexPath: /opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/data
    pod:
      couchabseEnv:
        CB_ENV_VAR: value
      resources:
        limits:
          cpu: 4GHz
          memory: 8GiB
          storage: 100GiB
        requests:
          cpu: 2GHz
          memory: 8GiB
          storage: 50GiB
      labels:
        couchbase_services: all
      nodeSelector:
        instanceType: large
      tolerations:
        - key: app
          operator: Equal
          value: cbapp
          effect: NoSchedule
```

*Specification rules:* The ```servers``` portion of the specification is required and must always contain at least one server definition. There must also be at least one definition that contains the data service.

**size**

This field specifies the number of nodes of this type that should be in the cluster. This allows the user to scale up different parts of the cluster as necessary. If this parameter is changed at runtime, the Operator will automatically scale the cluster.

> *Field rules:* The ```size``` is required and can be set set greater than or equal to 1.

**name**

This field specifies a name for this group of servers.

> *Field rules:* The ```name``` field is required and must be unique in comparison to the ```name``` field of other server definitions. The value of this field cannot be changed after a server has been defined.

**services**

This field specifies a list of services that should be run on nodes of this type. Users can specify data, index, query, and search in the list. At least one service must be specified and all clusters must contain at least one node specification that includes the data service.

> *Field rules:* The ```services``` list is required and must contain at least one service. Valid values for services are "data", "index", "query", and "search". The values of this list cannot be changed after a server has been defined.

**dataPath**

This field specifies the path where data from the data service should be stored. This parameter is required.

> *Field rules:* The ```dataPath``` is required and be set to a valid path. The value of this field cannot be changed after a server has been defined.

**indexPath**

This field specifies the path were data created by indexes should be stored. This parameter is required.

> *Field rules:* The ```indexPath``` is required and be set to a valid path. The value of this field cannot be changed after a server has been defined.

### The Pod Policy

The Pod policy defines settings that apply to all Pods deployed with this node configuration. A Pod always contains a single running instance of Couchbase Server.

```yaml
...
    pod:
      couchabseEnv:
        CB_ENV_VAR: value
      resources:
        limits:
          cpu: 4GHz
          memory: 8GiB
          storage: 100GiB
        requests:
          cpu: 2GHz
          memory: 8GiB
          storage: 50GiB
      labels:
        couchbase_services: all
      nodeSelector:
        instanceType: large
      tolerations:
        - key: app
          operator: Equal
          value: cbapp
          effect: NoSchedule
        volumeMounts:
          - name: couchbase
            path: /opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/
```

**couchbaseEnv**

This field specifies the environment variables (as key-values pairs) that should be set when the Pod is started. The key in this case is the environment variable name and the value is the value of the environment variable. This section is optional.

> *Field rules:* The value of this field cannot be changed after a server has been defined.

#### Resources

```yaml
...
    resources:
      limits:
        cpu: 2GHz
        memory: 8GiB
        storage: 100GiB
      requests:
        cpu: 1.5GHz
        memory: 8GiB
        storage: 50GiB
...
```

**limits**

This field lets you reserve resources on a specific node. It defines the maximum amount of CPU, memory, and storage the Pods created in this node specification will reserve.

**requests**

This field lets you reserve resources on a specific node. The requests section defines the minimum amount of CPU, memory, and storage the pods created in this node specification will reserve.

See the Kubernetes documentation for further information about [managing compute resources](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-compute-resources-container/).

**labels**

Labels are key-value pairs that are attached to objects in Kubernetes. They are intended to specify identifying attributes of objects that are meaningful to the user and do not directly imply semantics to the core system. Labels can be used to organize and select subsets of objects. They do not need to be unique across multiple objects. This section is optional.

Labels added in this section will apply to all pods added in this cluster. Note that by default we add the following labels to each pod, which should not be overridden.

    app:couchbase
    couchbase_cluster:<metadata:name>

In the sample configuration file referenced in this topic, the label would be couchbase_cluster:cb-example

The label for the first pod is of the format:
couchbase_node: <metadata:name>-<gen node id>

In the sample configuration file referenced in this topic, the label for the first pod would be couchbase_node:cb-example-0000

See the Kubernetes documentation about [labels](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/) for more information.

> *Field rules:* The value of this field cannot be changed after a server has been defined.

**nodeSelector**

This field specifies a key-value map of the constraints on node placement for pods. For a pod to be eligible to run on a node, the node must have each of the indicated key-value pairs as labels (it can have additional labels as well). If this section is not specified, then Kubernetes will place the pod on any available node. See the Kubernetes documentation about [label selectors](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/#label-selectors) for more details.

> *Field rules:* The value of this field cannot be changed after a server has been defined.

**tolerations**

This field specifies conditions upon which a node should not be selected when deploying a pod. From the sample configuration file referenced in this topic, you can see that any node with a label app:cbapp should not be allowed to run the pod defined in this node specification. You might do this if you have nodes dedicated for running an application using Couchbase where you don’t want the database and application to be running on the same node. See the Kubernetes documentation on [taints and tolerations](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/taint-and-toleration/) for more information on setting tolerations. The tolerations section is optional.

> *Field rules:* The value of this field cannot be changed after a server has been defined.


#### VolumeMounts

```yaml
        volumeMounts:
          - name: couchbase
            path: /opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/
```

VolumeMounts specify a path within the Pod that should be persisted.

**name**

Name of the volumeClaimTemplate used to created persisted volumes. The name must match the name of a volumeClaimTemplate within the spec.

**path**

Path within the pod to mount the persistent volume.gg

## Spec: VolumeClaimTemplates

```
  volumeClaimTemplates:
    - metadata:
        name: couchbase
      spec:
        storageClassName: "standard"
        resources:
          requests:
            storage: 1Gi
```

Defines a template of a persistent volume claim.  At runtime, the operator will create a persistent volume from this template for each pod.  Claims can request volumes from various types of storage systems as indentified by the storage class name.

**Metadata Name**

The metadata name identifies the claim template.  This name is used by the volumeMounts to reference which template to fulfill the mount request.

**StorageClassName**

The StorageClass required by the claim. A StorageClass provides a way for administrators to describe the classes of storage they offer. If no StorageClass is specified, then the default StorageClass will be used.  See kubernetes documentation for more information about (Storage Classes.)[https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes/]


**Resources**

The minimum resources the volume should have.  Only the storage requests are valid in this context.
